# Python-Sudoku
A program that uses an algorithm called backtracking to solve any sudoku board. This algorithim is a much faster alternative to other algorithims that can solve sudoku boards such as the naive algorithim.

More details: At the top of the code you can change the given board, here a 0 represents a blank space. After you have inserted numbers into the board when you run the program it will solve the sudoku board and print out the solution. It does this in a function called solution() that makes use of 2 other functions called empty_search() and check_valid(). The first function empty_search() goes through each row in the board finding an empty space. the second function, check_valid() is given a number to test, and tests to see if that number will work in that empty space. The solution() function uses these two functions to go through the board and solve each empty space. If the solution function finds that the current empty space has no possible solutions then it 'backtracks' to the previous empty space and tries a different number there. This is how the backtracking algorithim works, it doesn't test all possible numbers in all possible spaces, that would take too long. What it does is test all numbers in a empty space, then once it finds something that works it moves on to the next empty space, and does the same. When it comes to an empty space where no numbers work, it goes back to the previous empty space and tries the next possible number there. This allows the program to solve the sudoku board in a second.
